1.	Introduction?

	2.	What kind of projects you have worked on?

	3.	What was the architecture of your project ?

	4.	The way you implemented the API , was that monolithic application or how it was ?

	5.	If you want to developer an API from scratch , how you will start ?

	6.	How you will use third party API into your project ?

	7.	Any configuration file and you want to use variables inside that file and if it is outside the project or inside the project , how you will load that into your application?

	8.	Any experience in writing Junit test cases ?

	9.	Where you have used cloud services in your project?

	10.	How to connect s3 to your Spring boot application?

	11.	How an API is deployed to the cloud ?

	12.	How to troubleshoot the issues , if those found in cloud deployed application while in testing?

	13.	Where do you put configurations specific to databases in Spring boot?

	14.	How you will maintain different configurations in your project?

	15.	What are the features of Java8 features you are using in your day-to-day coding?

	16.	Which all collection framework you have used in your project?

	17.	If you want to maintain insertion order same as for dropdown on the UI, which collection framework you should use?

	18.	As on your resume, it's Angular and React..Have you worked or Just learned that ?

Write a query to find all users and there last login times with ip address in last 30 days

what is difference between synchronised method and synchronised block.

how will you handle the api in which there is a lot of data send by the client or large file is sent by client.

sample errors while deploying the application on Jenkins?

@Transactional explain

Exception logging and error handling.

How spring boot handles external configs

Why we use swagger api

what is rate limiting 

What is API throttling

Benefits of pom file

Diff between wait and sleep

Questions on dependency tree

Ways to test the APIs

API versioning

types of map

diff between Concurrent hash map and HashMap

what is JPArepsitory

spring JPA

Lambda expression

stream api

@Autowired and @Bean

annotations in springboot, what does pathvariable do?

diff between put and post

diff between soap and rest

Questions on spring Security

advantage of rest

how to handle errors in rest api

what is authorization and authentication -tell me the types of both

Explain any API which you have developed from scratch in your project.
 
HSBC
What is functional interface in java 8 and where you used in your project
What is Streams and types of streams and use
Difference between FlatMap and Map in java 8
Difference between == and equals
Difference between Interface and Abstraction
What is Caching in Spring boot and how does implementing in your project
What is load balancing and how does implementing in your project
What is circuit breaker and how does implementation in your project
How you are creating the custom exception in your project
Difference between Monolithic and Microservices
What is Concurrency and how you will handle your project
How you verify when a service is down or up and how you will handle your project
How to config the profiles
What is Default and static methods in java 8
 


OOPS principle
Data hiding in java possible ?
access modifiers
Overload and override scenario based example
string,stringbuilder,stringbuffer
collections- HashMap,list,set,concurrenthashmap
marker interface
multithreading implementation
exception handling 
create POST API which takes JSON as input and XML as output
HTTP status codes
Hibernate concepts and relationship
database schema for university application
Procedures and functions in SQL
conditional annotations
Sterotypes annotations in spring boot
difference between spring mvc and spring boot
 
spring boot , microserviecs and design pattern?
 
microservices benefits
design pattern
implementation of API gateway and Circuit breaker
 

Http status code 
what is IOC
what is DI
difference between spring and spring boot
list HTTP Methods 
JUNIT testing
what is the use of actuator in our application
Explain your role in project
Headers in rest api 
Component annotation
Repository annotation
CI/CD pipeline 
Project deployment
What are all headers you have used in postman?


What is the build tool in your project
How to install build tool
How to configure build tool
How to change jdk version in spring boot 3
Difference between dependency management and dependency
What are maven plugins
What is the use of Maven profiles
Where to use dependecy managent in project
Where to use dependency in your project
 
If you get fresh laptop then to start with spring boot application, rest api development and deployment of spring boot application what all resources you need
which version of java you used and which version of spring boot is compatible with it
what is latest version of spring boot
which build tool you have used
in pom.xml what is difference between dependency management and dependency tag
in pom.xml what is difference between maven plugin and plugin management tag
Is it possible to add concrete methods in interface



What Is Confluence?
Confluence is a remote-friendly team workspace where knowledge and collaboration meet. It’s used by teams to:
Create dynamic documents and pages
Collaborate in real time
Organize project resources
Integrate with tools like Jira, Trello, and Slack
 
Allianz:
What is confluence?

what is jeera?

what is agile?

what are agile ceremonies?

what are the principle of OOP?

What is design principles of Rest API?   

what is transaction management?

how you managed the behaviour of your transacation?                                                                                                                                        What is Kafka?

what ISR?

How fault tolerance handled in kafka?

How are you going to secure your api?

what is JWT?

how did you handled these JWT tokens?

which algorithm is used to encode your JWT?

What if I don't want to use JWT token for security purpose? how I am going to secure my API?

what is Rest API? what are the features of Rest API?

what is synchronous processing? asynchronous? -> with example  

What are the ways to deploy microservices?

what is load balancer? what is apI gateway?

how request flows in your project?

Design a system to handle large traffic with high availability and fault tolerance. Explain how to achieve this.
 
 
Below are the recently asked questions to one of the candidate :
 
Explain @Transactional in Spring Boot with a real-world scenario.

How do distributed transactions work in microservices architecture?

Explain OOP concepts with real-life examples, focusing on Polymorphism and Inheritance.

What is the difference between asynchronous and synchronous processing and communication?

Provide a scenario where a load balancer is used and explain its role.

Provide a scenario for using an API Gateway and explain its benefits.

Explain Spring Security with JWT tokens: structure of the token (3 parts), and how public/private key authentication works.

How do you achieve security in a Spring Boot application?

Design a system to handle large traffic with high availability and fault tolerance. Explain how to achieve this.

Have you worked in an Agile environment?

Have you used Jira and Confluence pages for project management and documentation?

Do you participate in daily stand-ups, sprint retrospectives, and other Agile ceremonies?

What are REST APIs, how do you build them, and why are they used?

Explain Swagger documentation and its role in API development.

Describe the SAGA and CQRS design patterns with real-life issues and solutions.


--------------------------------------------------------
Project Structure
Project  Domain
Skills
Experience
How to make class Immutable
How Java is platform independent - jvm is platform dependent but bytecode is independent
Abstract class vs Interface
Polymorphism
Can we override static and private methods why
Why Multiple Inheritance not supported in java
Method Overloading vs Method Overriding
Can we Execute program without main method
What is String ? How Strings can be created
Why String Objects are Immutable
What is Mutable Strings
What is Exception Handling
Base class Exception
Diff bet Checked ExceptionUncheked Exception
What is Custom Exception
If try block return s something will finally block get executed
Difference bet Throw and Throws
What is Collection
Difference bet ArrayList vs LinkedList
Internal working of Hashmap
List vs Set
Comparable Vs Comparator
Design Patterens of Java
Singleton Design pattern
Early Design pattern and Lazy Design Patteren
Java 8 Features
Functional Interface
Stream API and Types
Lamada Expression
Optional Class
Features of Spring
IOC Container
Dependency Injection
Bean,Autowire,Qualifier
Spring Features
Starter Dependencies
SpringBootApplication
Configuration vs ComponentScan
Can we disable Port in SpringBootApplication
Spring Actuators
Restcontroller vc Controller
Spring Profile
Spring Security
REST vs Soap
HTTP Methods and code
PUT vs Patch
RequestParam vs PatParam
What is Thread . Lifecycle of Thread
How to create Thread
What is Synchronization
How to deploy application on different envs
How microservices communicate
Can we add remove and add diff server in spring boot application
Query Annotation
how exception handling works
Default Capcity of Arraylist
Why Functional interface has only one abstarct method
What is Microservices
What issues are generally solved by spring clouds?
Explain the workings of Java Microservices Architecture.
transient @Service
 
 
Problem Statement
How do you check if a list of integers contains only odd numbers in Java?
How do you check whether a string is a palindrome in Java?
Find second largest No of array
write a Java program to find the duplicate numbers in a list = [1,5, 9, 13, 5, 2, 10, 2 , 1]  using streams API
Write a program that handle Airthemetic Excepetion
Find the occurance of each word "Pen", "Eraser", "Note Book", "Pen", "Pencil", "Stapler", "Note Book", "Pencil"
Remove duplicate elements of array
sort list in reverse order
Find the Maximum Number and Minimum Number in a List
What is the op :  String s = "Sachin"; s.concat(" Tendulkar");  System.out.println(s);


------------------------------------------------------------------
Hashmap Interview Questions
 
Why is ConcurrentHashMap fail-safe?
ConcurrentHashMap is a fail-safe collection, which means that multiple threads can access it simultaneously without throwing any exceptions.
This is because a ConcurrentHashMap uses a technique called “locking” to control concurrent access.
What is the difference between hashmap and ConcurrentHashMap ?
why get concurrentModification Exception ?
What will happen if two different keys of HashMap return the same hashcode()
What will happen if you use HashMap in a multithreaded Java application
How does Hashmap internally Works
Internal working of hashmap. how to avoid collision?
What are the differences between `HashMap` and `ConcurrentHashMap`? 
Hashmap collision insertion process. How equals and hascode works.
In hashmap 1key contains two values which value will retrive first.
concurrent hashmap nd how to implement




 
